# TWITTER-SENTIMENT-ANALYSIS-USING-APACHE-SPARK
Today, with the advancement of social media and increasing internet penetration in India, everything now is shared online; starting from news, latest updates, sports and whatnot. However, this also has a problem as we see people getting easily influenced by fake news and propaganda in social media and this is having serious consequences in law and order. Social media also is an influencer in ecommerce which can provide data on peoples‟ needs and expectations. The competition amongst brands would do anything to have the data on social media trends. Realizing the true feeling in a tweet is very important. Based on a series of tweets, we examine the possibility of classifying them into different mood classes. From each tweet, we extract different sets of functions, refer to a manually annotated training set, and use machine learning to perform the classification. We examine the influence of the number of mood classes on the classification performance (that is, accuracy, precision, and memory). We analyze the results of the various experiments and conclude with the limitations that make the classification of several classes a difficult task. This can also help curb fake news and propaganda aimed to misguide people as well. Various research has been done in this field, based on various algorithms that predict the feelings of feedback when given as input, and it is still ongoing research.  Sentiment analysis in the domain of micro-blogging is a relatively new research topic so there is still a lot of room for further research in this area. Decent amount of related prior work has been done on sentiment analysis of user reviews, documents, web blogs/articles and general phrase level sentiment analysis. These differ from Twitter mainly because of the limit of 140 characters per comment which forces the user to express opinion compressed in very short text. The best results reached in sentiment classification use supervised learning techniques such as Naive Bayes and Support Vector Machines, but the manual labelling required for the supervised approach is very expensive. Some work has been done on unsupervised and semi-supervised approaches, and there is a lot of room of improvement. Various researchers testing new features and classification techniques often just compare their results to base-line performance. There is a need of proper and formal comparisons between these results arrived through different features and classification techniques in order to select the best features and most efficient classification techniques for particular applications. Index terms- classifier, data set, multi-class classification, sentiment analysis, training set, twitter.

We use different feature sets and machine learning classifiers to determine the best combination for sentiment analysis of twitter. We also experiment with various pre-processing steps like - punctuations, emoticons, twitter specific terms and stemming. We investigated the following features - unigrams, bigrams, trigrams and negation detection. 
We accessed the Twitter API for live streaming tweets. Performed Feature Extraction and transformation from the JSON format of tweets using machine learning package of python pyspark.mllib and experimented with three classifiers -Naïve Bayes, Logistic Regression and Decision Tree Learning and performed k-fold cross validation to determine the best.
